# stock-viewing-app

This is a downloadable app allows the user to use Twelve Data API (https://twelvedata.com), provided they have a key, to view and generate various charts regarding financial data. The user can view the change in stock value of a single company from a designated start date to end date, as a line graph. They can view the makeup of the market on a specified day by sectors, as a pie chart. Finally, they can view the currency exchange rate between a currency of their choice and other common currencies, as a bar graph.

Most of the code written is my own, but when it is not, there are comments containing the source of the code that I used. I also used the documentation of PyQt6, Matplotlib, and Pandas heavily.

This program works by executing main.py.

If you are a grader and the program is not working on your machine, I have recorded a short demonstration: https://youtu.be/lT-EWVXbtus

### Ethical Considerations

The Twelve Data API states the following rules regarding using their data with a Basic or Grow API plan:
You (individual) may use the data only for personal, non-commercial purposes. You may not display or redistribute the data to third parties in any manner.

However, if you have a plan that is Pro or higher, feel free to use the data and charts in any way that you see fit.

I am not distributing any data generated by the API. I am only allowing the user to generate their own data.

## /python

### /ui
This directory contains the ui and python files that were automatically generated by PyQt5 designer tools, which I used to create the GUI for the application for fetching the user's API key and for the main application.

### main.py
This script's sole purpose is to load and run the API key and main applications.

### get_api_app.py
This script contains the logic for the API fetching application. It also is responsible for making a dummy call to the Twelve Data API to ensure that the API key provided by the user is real.

### get_main_app.py
This contains the logic for the main application. It is mainly responsible for loading the proper values into the GUI inputs and passing the user's parameters to chart_generator.py, where they are then sent to the API to fetch data.

### company_web_scraper.py
This script is responsible for scraping https://www.slickcharts.com/sp500 for the symbols and company names of all of the company's in the SMP 500. It then scrapes https://www.sectorspdrs.com for the sector of each company. This data is stored in a SQLite database located at data/info.db.

### db_reader.py
This script is responsible for loading data from the SQLite database at data/info.db and returning it in different forms when necessary. It is able to retrieve company names by their symbol and return entire columns of the database.

### chart_generator.py
This script is responsible for calling the API for the data requested by the user and creating the correct corresponding chart with that information. Once the chart is created, it is displayed to the user and saved to the output directory. It optionally saves the Dataframe containing all of the information is the user desires. Use this data following the guidelines put in place by Twelve Data.

### mock_generator.py
This script genertaes charts with parameters set in place by the user. The values are completely randomly generated and do NOT reflect real world data. Use charts made with this method in any way you would like.

## /data

### api_key.txt
Stores the user's api_key. Only created once the user inputs a working Twelve Data API key.

### info.db
SQLite database that contains the names, symbols, and sectors of all companies in the SMP 500.

## /output
This directory is the location where all of the user's generated charts will be saved once they are created

## output/samples
Contains various example charts, created by me whilst using the app. These are not real values and were created using the mock data functionality.
Contains various example charts, created by me whilst using the app. These are not real values and were created using the mock data functionality.
